Name: Jaiden Atterbury
CSE 160
Homework 2

For each problem that requires a written answer, write (or copy-and-paste)
your answers in this file.  When you are done, you should have replaced all
the ellipses (the three dots) with your answers.

At the end, you will turn in this file and your modified
dna_analysis.py program.


Problem 2:

GC-content: 0.43059987061138255

Problem 3:

a) When I commented out the gc_count variable and re-ran the program from the 
command line an error appeared in the terminal. This error stated: "NameError: 
name 'gc_count' is not defined." This error occured because a variable was 
manipulated in the for loop, but the variable itself was never intialized
because we just commented it out. In particular, this variable is used to keep
track of the number of G or C nucleotides in the given string, but when the for
loop goes to update the count, the variable was never initialized so execution
terminates and an error message appears in the terminal.

b) When I commented out the nucleotides variable and re-ran the program from
the command line an error appeared in the terminal. This error stated: "Name
Error: name 'nucleotides' is not defined." This error occured because a 
the variable "nucleotides" was assigned a string and was used as the sequence
in the main for loop, but the variable itself was never defined because we just
commented it out. In particular, this variable is used to read in the DNA data
from a given file, and convert all the nucleotide information into one string,
but when the for loop uses the variable as a sequence, the variable itself was
never assigned, and thus, execution halted and an error message appeared in the
terminal.

Problem 4:

AT-content: 0.5694001293886175

Problem 5:

G count: 5738773
C count: 5879128
A count: 7701287
T count: 7661547

Problem 6:

a.) After running each of the .fastq files the only one that did NOT have any
differences between the sum, total, and length measurements was the 
test-small.fastq file. All of the other .fastq files had the same total for the
total_count and len(nucleotides) variables/measurements, but the sum of G+C+A+T
differed from these other measurements over all of the files mentioned. For 
example, in the file sample_5.fastq the total_count and len(nucleotides) had a
total count of 76, while the sum of G+C+A+T variable had a total count of 75.
After inspecting the files, the reason for these differences in counts is the
fact that the first draft of our program assumes there are only G,C,A and T 
characters present in the nucleotides string. This turns out to not be the case
as the string includes 'N' characters throughtout. Therefore, these
characters are getting accounted for in only 2/3 of the variables, and thus
causing a difference.

b.) The quantity that should be used in the denominator of or GC and AT content
variable is the sum_counts variable, as that will give us the accurate total
count for G, C, A, and T characters in the string. The other two measurements 
should not be used in the denominator of our GC and AT content variable as they
account for these N values and thus, misrepresent the total of G, C, A, and T
characters in the string.

c.) My program incorrectly computes and prints the values of GC and AT content
as I mistakenly used total_count in the denominator instead of the sum_counts
variable.

Problem 7:

AT/GC Ratio: 1.3223416174746196

Problem 8:

GC Classification: moderate GC content

Collaboration:

While working on this assignment, I didn't collaborate with anyone.
